Biography of Barack Obama
Born August 4, 1961, Honolulu, Hawaii, The Republic of the United
States of America,
Nationality: American
Political party: Democratic
Spouse: Michelle Obama
Daughters: Malia and Natasha (“Sasha”)

Barack Obama was born in Honolulu, Hawaii to Barack Obama,
Sr. (born in Nyanza Province, Kenya) & Ann Dunham (born in
Wichita, Kansas). His parents met while both were attending the
University of Hawaii at Manoa, where his father was enrolled as a
foreign student. Obama's parents separated when he was two years
old & later divorced. His father went to Harvard University to pursue
Ph.D. studies, then returned to Kenya, where he died in a car
accident when Obama was 21 years old. His mother married Lolo
Soetoro, an Indonesian foreign student, with whom she had one
daughter, Maya. The family moved to Jakarta in 1967, where Obama

Page 1 of 18

Biography of Barack Obama
attended local schools from ages 6 to 10. He then returned to
Honolulu to live with his maternal grandparents while attending
Punahou School from 5th grade until his graduation in 1979.
Obama's mother died of ovarian cancer a few months after the
publication of his 1995 memoir, Dreams from My Father.
In the memoir, Obama describes his experiences growing up in
his mother's American middle class family. His knowledge about his
absent Luo father came mainly through family stories & photographs.
Of his early childhood, Obama writes: "That my father looked nothing
like the people around me—that he was black as pitch, my mother
white as milk—barely registered in my mind." The book describes his
struggles as a young adult to reconcile social perceptions of his
multiracial heritage.
After graduating from Punahou, Obama studied at Occidental
College for two years, then transferred to Columbia University, where
he majored in political science with a specialization in international
relations. He received his B.A. degree in 1983, then worked for one
year at Business International Corporation. In 1985, Obama moved to
Chicago to direct a non-profit project assisting local churches to
organize job training programs. He entered Harvard Law School in
1988. In 1990, The New York Times reported his election as the
Harvard Law Review's "first black president in its 104-year history."
He completed his J.D. degree magna cum laude in 1991. On
returning to Chicago, Obama directed a voter registration drive. As an
associate attorney with Miner, Barnhill & Galland from 1993 to 1996,
he represented community organizers, discrimination claims, & voting

Page 2 of 18

Biography of Barack Obama
rights cases. He was a lecturer of constitutional law at the University
of Chicago Law School from 1993 until his election to the U.S. Senate
in 2004.
In 1988, while employed as a summer associate at the Chicago
law firm of Sidley & Austin, Obama met Michelle Robinson, who also
worked there. They were married in 1992 & have two daughters,
Malia, born in 1999, & Natasha ("Sasha"), born in 2001. The Obamas
moved from their Hyde Park, Chicago condominium to a nearby
US$1.6-million home in 2005, funding the purchase with royalties
from his first book & an advance of nearly US$2 million for future
books.
Obama golf’s & also plays basketball, a sport he participated in
as a member of his high school's team. Before announcing his
presidential candidacy, Obama began a well-publicized effort to quit
smoking. "I've never been a heavy smoker," he told the Chicago
Tribune. "I've quit periodically over the last several years. I've got an
ironclad demand from my wife that in the stresses of the campaign I
don't succumb. I've been chewing Nicorette strenuously."
Obama was elected to the Illinois State Senate in 1996 from the
state's 13th District in the south-side Chicago neighborhood of Hyde
Park. In 2000, he made an unsuccessful Democratic primary run for
the U.S. House of Representatives seat held by four-term incumbent
candidate Bobby Rush. He was overwhelmingly reelected to the
Illinois Senate in 1998 & 2002, officially resigning in November 2004,
following his election to the U.S. Senate. Among his major
accomplishments as a state legislator, Obama's U.S. Senate web site

Page 3 of 18

Biography of Barack Obama
lists: "creating programs like the state Earned Income Tax Credit";
"an expansion of early childhood education"; & "legislation requiring
the videotaping of interrogations & confessions in all capital cases."
Reviewing Obama's career in the Illinois Senate, a February 2007
article in the Washington Post noted his work with both Democrats &
Republicans in drafting bipartisan legislation on ethics & health care
reform. During his 2004 U.S. Senate campaign, Obama won the
endorsement of the Illinois Fraternal Order of Police, whose officials
cited his "longtime support of gun control measures & his willingness
to negotiate compromises," despite his support for some bills the
police union had opposed. He was also criticized by a rival pro-choice
candidate in the Democratic primary & by his Republican pro-life
opponent in the general election for having voted either "present" or
"no" on anti-abortion legislation.
Obama wrote & delivered the keynote address at the 2004
Democratic National Convention in Boston, Massachusetts, while still
serving as a state legislator. After describing his maternal
grandfather's experiences as a World War II veteran & a beneficiary
of the New Deal's FHA & G.I. Bill programs, Obama said:
No, people don't expect government to solve all their problems.
But they sense, deep in their bones, that with just a slight change in
priorities, we can make sure that every child in America has a decent
shot at life, & that the doors of opportunity remain open to all. They
know we can do better. & they want that choice.
Questioning the Bush administration's handling of the Iraq War,
Obama spoke of an enlisted Marine, Corporal Seamus Ahern from

Page 4 of 18

Biography of Barack Obama
East Moline, Illinois, asking, "Are we serving Seamus as well as he is
serving us?" He continued:
When we send our young men & women into harm's way, we
have a solemn obligation not to fudge the numbers or shade the truth
about why they're going, to care for their families while they're gone,
to tend to the soldiers upon their return, & to never, ever go to war
without enough troops to win the war, secure the peace, & earn the
respect of the world.
The pundits like to slice-and-dice our country into Red States &
Blue States; Red States for Republicans, Blue States for Democrats.
But I've got news for them too. We worship an awesome God in the
Blue States, & we don't like federal agents poking around in our
libraries in the Red States. We coach Little League in the Blue States
& yes, we got some gay friends in the Red States. There are patriots
who opposed the war in Iraq & patriots who supported the war in Iraq.
We are one people, all of us pledging allegiance to the stars &
stripes, all of us defending the United States of America.
The speech was Obama's introduction to most of America. Its
enthusiastic reception at the convention & widespread coverage by
national media gave him instant celebrity status.
In 2003, Obama began his run for the U.S. Senate open seat
vacated by Peter Fitzgerald. In early opinion polls leading up to the
Democratic primary, Obama trailed multimillionaire businessman Blair
Hull & Illinois Comptroller Dan Hynes. However, Hull's popularity
declined following allegations of domestic abuse. Obama's candidacy
was boosted by an advertising campaign featuring images of the late
Page 5 of 18

Biography of Barack Obama
Chicago Mayor Harold Washington & the late U.S. Senator Paul
Simon; the support of Simon's daughter; & political endorsements by
the Chicago Tribune & Chicago Sun-Times. Obama received over
52% of the vote in the March 2004 primary, emerging 29% ahead of
his nearest Democratic rival. His opponent in the general election
was expected to be Republican primary winner Jack Ryan. However,
Ryan withdrew from the race in June 2004, following public disclosure
of child custody divorce records containing sexual allegations by
Ryan's ex-wife, actress Jeri Ryan. In August 2004, with less than
three months to go before election day, Alan Keyes accepted the
Illinois Republican Party's nomination to replace Ryan. A long-time
resident of Maryland, Keyes established legal residency in Illinois with
the nomination. Through three televised debates, Obama & Keyes
expressed opposing views on stem cell research, abortion, gun
control, school vouchers, & tax cuts. In the November 2004 general
election, Obama received 70% of the vote to Keyes's 27%.
Obama was sworn in as a Senator on January 4, 2005. He
hired former Senate Democratic Leader Tom Daschle's ex-chief of
staff for the same position, & Karen Kornbluh, an economist who was
deputy chief of staff to former Secretary of the Treasury Robert
Rubin, as his policy adviser. In July 2005, Samantha Power, Pulitzerwinning author on human rights & genocide, joined Obama's team.
An October 2005 article in the British journal New Statesman listed
Obama as one of "10 people who could change the world." Three
months into his Senate career, & again in 2007, Time magazine
named Obama one of "the world's most influential people." During his

Page 6 of 18

Biography of Barack Obama
first two years in the Senate, Obama received Honorary Doctorates of
Law from Knox College, University of Massachusetts Boston,
Northwestern University, & Xavier University of Louisiana. He is a
member of the Senate committees on Foreign Relations; Health,
Education, Labor & Pensions; Homeland Security & Governmental
Affairs; & Veterans' Affairs; & the Congressional Black Caucus.
U.S. Senate bill sponsors Tom Coburn (R-OK) & Barack
Obama greet President Bush at the signing ceremony of the Federal
Funding Accountability & Transparency Act of 2006. Obama
sponsored 152 bills & resolutions brought before the 109th Congress
in 2005 & 2006, & cosponsored another 427. His first bill was the
"Higher Education Opportunity through Pell Grant Expansion Act."
Entered in fulfillment of a campaign promise, the bill proposed
increasing the maximum amount of Pell Grant awards to help
students from lower income families pay their college tuitions. The bill
did not progress beyond committee & was never voted on by the
Senate.
Obama took an active role in the Senate's drive for improved
border security & immigration reform. Beginning in 2005, he cosponsored the "Secure America & Orderly Immigration Act"
introduced by Sen. John McCain (R-AZ). Obama later added three
amendments to S. 2611, the "Comprehensive Immigration Reform
Act," sponsored by Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA). S. 2611 passed the
Senate in May 2006, but failed to gain majority support in the U.S.
House of Representatives. In September 2006, Obama supported a
related bill, the Secure Fence Act, authorizing construction of fencing

Page 7 of 18

Biography of Barack Obama
& other security improvements along the United States–Mexico
border. President Bush signed the Secure Fence Act into law in
October 2006, calling it "an important step toward immigration
reform."
Partnering first with Sen. Richard Lugar (R-IN), & then with
Sen. Tom Coburn (R-OK), Obama successfully introduced two
initiatives bearing his name. "Lugar-Obama" expands the Nunn-Lugar
cooperative threat reduction concept to conventional weapons,
including shoulder-fired missiles & anti-personnel mines. The
"Coburn-Obama Transparency Act" provides for a web site, managed
by the Office of Management & Budget, listing all organizations
receiving Federal funds from 2007 onward, & providing breakdowns
by the agency allocating the funds, the dollar amount given, & the
purpose of the grant or contract. On December 22, 2006, President
Bush signed into law the "Democratic Republic of the Congo Relief,
Security, & Democracy Promotion Act," marking the first federal
legislation to be enacted with Obama as its primary sponsor.
On the first day of the Democratic-controlled 110th Congress, in
a column published in the Washington Post, Obama called for an end
to "any & all practices that would lead a reasonable person to believe
that a public servant has become indebted to a lobbyist." He joined
with Sen. Russ Feingold (D-WI) in strengthening restrictions on travel
in corporate jets to S.1, the Legislative Transparency & Accountability
Act of 2007, which passed the Senate with a 96-2 majority. Obama
joined Charles Schumer (D-NY) in sponsoring S. 453, a bill to
criminalize deceptive practices in federal elections, including

Page 8 of 18

Biography of Barack Obama
fraudulent flyers & automated phone calls, as witnessed in the 2006
midterm elections. Obama's energy initiatives scored pluses &
minuses with environmentalists, who welcomed his sponsorship with
Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) of a climate change bill to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions by two-thirds by 2050, but were skeptical
of Obama's support for a bill promoting liquefied coal production. Also
during the first month of the 110th Congress, Obama introduced the
"Iraq War De-Escalation Act," a bill that caps troop levels in Iraq at
January 10, 2007 levels, begins phased redeployment on May 1,
2007, & removes all combat brigades from Iraq by March 31, 2008.
Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Richard Lugar
(R-IN) & Committee member Barack Obama at a Russian base,
where mobile launch missiles are being destroyed by the Nunn-Lugar
program. During the August recess of 2005, Obama traveled with
Sen. Richard Lugar (R-IN), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, to Russia, Ukraine & Azerbaijan. The trip focused on
strategies to control the world's supply of conventional weapons,
biological weapons, & weapons of mass destruction, as a strategic
first defense against the threat of future terrorist attacks. Lugar &
Obama inspected a Nunn-Lugar program-supported nuclear warhead
destruction facility at Saratov, in southern European Russia. In
Ukraine, they toured a disease control & prevention facility &
witnessed the signing of a bilateral pact to secure biological
pathogens & combat risks of infectious disease outbreaks from
natural causes or bioterrorism.

Page 9 of 18

Biography of Barack Obama
In January 2006, Obama joined a Congressional delegation for
meetings with U.S. military in Kuwait & Iraq. After the visits, Obama
traveled to Jordan, Israel, & the Palestinian territories. While in Israel,
Obama met with Israeli Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom. Obama also
met with a group of Palestinian students two weeks before Hamas
won the January 2006 Palestinian legislative election. ABC News 7
(Chicago) reported Obama telling the students that "the U.S. will
never recognize winning Hamas candidates unless the group
renounces its fundamental mission to eliminate Israel," & that he had
conveyed the same message in his meeting with Palestinian authority
President Mahmoud Abbas.
Obama left for his third official trip in August 2006, traveling to
South Africa & Kenya, & making stops in Djibouti, Ethiopia & Chad.
He flew his wife & two daughters from Chicago to join him in a visit to
his father's birthplace, a village near Kisumu in rural western Kenya.
Enthusiastic crowds greeted Obama's public appearances. In a public
gesture aimed to encourage more Kenyans to undergo voluntary HIV
testing, Obama & his wife took HIV tests at a Kenyan clinic. In a
nationally televised speech at the University of Nairobi, he spoke
forcefully on the influence of ethnic rivalries & corruption in Kenya.
The speech touched off a public debate among rival leaders, some
formally challenging Obama's remarks as unfair & improper, others
defending his positions.
Obama drew a crowd of over 20,000 attendees at a Austin
Texas, appearance. In February 2007, standing before the Old State
Capitol building in Springfield, Illinois, Obama announced his

Page 10 of 18

Biography of Barack Obama
candidacy for the 2008 U.S. presidential election. Describing his
working life in Illinois, & symbolically linking the event to Abraham
Lincoln's 1858 House Divided speech, he said: "That is why, in the
shadow of the Old State Capitol, where Lincoln once called on a
house divided to stand together, where common hopes & common
dreams still live, I stand before you today to announce my candidacy
for President of the United States of America."
The announcement followed months of speculation on whether
Obama would run in 2008. Speculation intensified in October 2006
when Obama first said he had "thought about the possibility" of
running for president, departing from earlier statements that he
intended to serve out his six-year Senate term through 2010.
Following Obama's statement, opinion polling organizations added
his name to surveyed lists of Democratic candidates. The first such
poll, taken in November 2006, ranked Obama in second place with
17% support among Democrats after Sen. Hillary Clinton (D-NY) who
placed first with 28% of the responses.
Through the fall of 2006, Obama had spoken at political events
across the country in support of Democratic candidates for the
midterm elections. In September 2006, he was the featured speaker
at Iowa Senator Tom Harkin's annual steak fry, an event traditionally
attended by presidential hopefuls in the lead-up to the Iowa caucus.
In December 2006, Obama spoke at a New Hampshire event
celebrating Democratic Party midterm election victories in the first-inthe-nation U.S. presidential primary state. Addressing a meeting of
the Democratic National Committee one week before announcing his

Page 11 of 18

Biography of Barack Obama
candidacy, Obama called on Democrats to steer clear of negative
campaigning, saying: "This can't be about who digs up more
skeletons on who, who makes the fewest slip-ups on the campaign
trail. We owe it to the American people to do more than that."
Obama's campaign reported raising US$25.8 million between
January 1 & March 31 of 2007. The donations came from 104,000
individual donors, with US$6.9 million raised through the Internet from
50,000 of the donors. US$24.8 million of Obama's first quarter funds
can be used in the primaries, the highest of any 2008 presidential
candidate. In early May 2007, the U.S. Secret Service announced
that Obama had been placed under their protection. The protection
was not in response to any specific threat, but the campaign had
received "hate mail, calls & other 'threatening materials'" in the past,
& officials felt that the large crowds & increased campaign activity
warranted the order.
On the role of government in economic affairs, Obama has
written: "we should be asking ourselves what mix of policies will lead
to a dynamic free market & widespread economic security,
entrepreneurial innovation & upward mobility [...] we should be guided
by what works." Speaking before the National Press Club in April
2005, Obama defended the New Deal social welfare policies of
Franklin D. Roosevelt, associating Republican proposals to establish
private accounts for Social Security with Social Darwinism. In a May
2006 letter to President Bush, he joined four other Midwest farming
state Senators in calling for the preservation of a US$0.54 per gallon
tariff on imported ethanol. Obama spoke out in June 2006 against

Page 12 of 18

Biography of Barack Obama
making recent, temporary estate tax cuts permanent, calling the cuts
a "Paris Hilton" tax break for "billionaire heirs & heiresses."
Speaking in November 2006 to members of Wake Up WalMart, a union-backed campaign group, Obama said: "You gotta pay
your workers enough that they can actually not only shop at WalMart, but ultimately send their kids to college & save for retirement."
In January 2007, Obama spoke at an event organized by Families
USA, a health care advocacy group. Obama said, "The time has
come for universal health care in America [...] I am absolutely
determined that by the end of the first term of the next president, we
should have universal health care in this country." Obama went on to
say that he believed that it was wrong that forty-six million Americans
are uninsured, noting that taxpayers already pay over 15 billion
dollars annually to care for the uninsured.
He was an early opponent of Bush administration policies on
Iraq. In the fall of 2002, during an anti-war rally at Chicago's Federal
Plaza, Obama said:
I know that an invasion of Iraq without a clear rationale &
without strong international support will only fan the flames of the
Middle East, & encourage the worst, rather than best, impulses of the
Arab world, & strengthen the recruitment arm of al-Qaeda. I am not
opposed to all wars. I'm opposed to dumb wars. You want a fight,
President Bush? Let's finish the fight with Bin Laden & al-Qaeda,
through effective, coordinated intelligence, & a shutting down of the
financial networks that support terrorism, & a homeland security
program that involves more than color-coded warnings.

Page 13 of 18

Biography of Barack Obama
Speaking before the Chicago Council on Global Affairs in
November 2006, he said: "The days of using the war on terror as a
political football are over. [...] It is time to give Iraqis their country
back, & it is time to refocus America's efforts on the wider struggle yet
to be won." In his speech Obama also called for a phased withdrawal
of American troops starting in 2007, & an opening of diplomatic
dialogue with Iraq's neighbors, Syria & Iran.
Obama spoke about Iran's "uranium enrichment program" on
March 2, 2007, stating that Iran's government is "a threat to all of us,"
& that the US "should take no option, including military action, off the
table." However, he stated that the US's "primary means" of relating
to Iran should entail "sustained & aggressive diplomacy combined
with tough sanctions."
Obama began podcasting from his U.S. Senate web site in late
2005. He has responded to & personally participated in online
discussions hosted on politically-oriented blog sites. In a June 2006
podcast, Obama expressed support for telecommunications
legislation to protect network neutrality on the Internet, saying: "It is
because the Internet is a neutral platform that I can put out this
podcast & transmit it over the Internet without having to go through
any corporate media middleman. I can say what I want without
censorship or without having to pay a special charge. But the big
telephone & cable companies want to change the Internet as we
know it."
During his first year as a U.S. senator, in a move more typically
taken after several years of holding high political office, Obama

Page 14 of 18

Biography of Barack Obama
established a leadership political action committee, Hopefund, for
channeling financial support to Democratic candidates. Obama
participated in 38 fundraising events in 2005, helping to pull in
US$6.55 million for candidates he supports & his own 2010 reelection fund. The New York Times described Obama as "the prize
catch of the midterm campaign" because of his campaigning for
fellow Democratic Party members running for election in the 2006
midterm elections. Hopefund gave US$374,000 to federal candidates
in the 2006 election cycle, making it one of the top donors to federal
candidates for the year.
Obama has encouraged Democrats to reach out to
evangelicals & other religious people, saying, "if we truly hope to
speak to people where they’re at—to communicate our hopes &
values in a way that’s relevant to their own—we cannot abandon the
field of religious discourse." In December 2006, Obama joined Sen.
Sam Brownback (R-KS) at the "Global Summit on AIDS & the
Church" organized by church leaders Kay & Rick Warren. Together
with Warren & Brownback, Obama took an HIV test, as he had done
in Kenya less than four months earlier. Obama encouraged "others in
public life to do the same" to show "there is no shame in going for an
HIV test." Before the conference, 18 pro-life groups published an
open letter stating, in reference to Obama's support for legal abortion:
"In the strongest possible terms, we oppose Rick Warren's decision
to ignore Senator Obama's clear pro-death stance & invite him to
Saddleback Church anyway."

Page 15 of 18

Biography of Barack Obama
A theme of Obama's 2004 Democratic National Convention
keynote address, & the title of his 2006 book, The Audacity of Hope,
was inspired by a sermon by Rev. Jeremiah Wright, the pastor of
Obama's church, Trinity United Church of Christ. In the book, Obama
writes that his religious convictions formed during his twenties, when,
as a community organizer working with local churches, he came to
understand "the power of the African American religious tradition to
spur social change":
It was because of these newfound understandings—that
religious commitment did not require me to suspend critical thinking,
disengage from the battle for economic & social justice, or otherwise
retreat from the world that I knew & loved—that I was finally able to
walk down the aisle of Trinity United Church of Christ one day & be
baptized. It came about as a choice & not an epiphany; the questions
I had did not magically disappear. But kneeling beneath that cross on
the South Side of Chicago, I felt God's spirit beckoning me. I
submitted myself to His will, & dedicated myself to discovering His
truth.
Obama's 1995 book, Dreams from My Father, is a memoir of
his youth & early career. The book was reprinted in 2004 with a new
preface & an annex containing his 2004 Democratic Convention
keynote speech. The audio book edition earned Obama the 2006
Grammy Award for Best Spoken Word Album. In December 2004,
Obama signed a US$1.9 million contract for three books. The first,
The Audacity of Hope, was published in October 2006. An Italian
translation was published in April 2007, & a Spanish translation will

Page 16 of 18

Biography of Barack Obama
be published in June 2007. It has remained on the New York Times
Best Seller list for the 29 weeks since publication.
Supporters & critics have likened Obama's popular image to a
cultural Rorschach test, a neutral persona on which people can
project their personal histories & aspirations. Obama's own selfnarrative reinforces what a May 2004 New Yorker magazine article
described as his "everyman" image. In Dreams from My Father, he
ties his maternal family history to possible Native American ancestors
& distant relatives of Jefferson Davis, president of the southern
Confederacy during the American Civil War. Speaking to an elderly
Jewish audience during his 2004 campaign for U.S. Senate, Obama
linked the linguistic roots of his East African first name Barack to the
Hebrew word baruch, meaning "blessed." In an October 2006
interview on The Oprah Winfrey Show, Obama highlighted the
diversity of his extended family: "Michelle will tell you that when we
get together for Christmas or Thanksgiving, it's like a little mini-United
Nations," he said. "I've got relatives who look like Bernie Mac, & I've
got relatives who look like Margaret Thatcher. We've got it all."
Obama's rapid rise from Illinois state legislator to U.S.
presidential candidate has attracted conflicting analyses among
commentators challenged to align him with traditional social
categories. In her January 2007 Salon article asserting that Obama
"isn't black," columnist Debra Dickerson writes: "lumping us all
together [with Obama] erases the significance of slavery & continuing
racism while giving the appearance of progress." Expressing a similar
view, New York Daily News columnist Stanley Crouch wrote: "When

Page 17 of 18

Biography of Barack Obama
black Americans refer to Obama as 'one of us,' I do not know what
they are talking about." But in an October 2006 article titled "Obama:
Black Like Me," British columnist Gary Younge describes Obama as
"a black man who does not scare white people." Film critic David
Ehrenstein, writing in a March 2007 Los Angeles Times article, iffilly
compares the cultural sources of candidate Obama's favorable
polling among whites to those of "magical negro" roles played by
black actors in Hollywood movies.
Writing about Obama's political image in a March 2007
Washington Post opinion column, Eugene Robinson characterized
him as "the personification of both-and," a messenger who rejects
"either-or" political choices, & could "move the nation beyond the
culture wars" of the 1960s. Obama, who defines himself in The
Audacity of Hope as "a Democrat, after all," has been criticized for his
political actions by self-described progressive commentator David
Sirota, & complimented for his "Can't we all just get along?" manner
by conservative columnist George Will. But in a December 2006 Wall
Street Journal editorial headlined "The Man from Nowhere," former
Ronald Reagan speech writer Peggy Noonan advised Will & other
"establishment" commentators to get "down from your tippy toes" &
avoid becoming too quickly excited about Obama's still early political
career. Agreeing with Obama's own assessment that "people project
their hopes on him," Noonan attributed some of Obama's popularity
to "a certain unknowability."
In 2008 November, Barack Obama was elected President of
the USA. And the Rest is “History.”

Page 18 of 18

