Eight years after the 26/11 terror attack in Mumbai in which 166 people were killed, only 102 families have been given the Rs three lakh compensation that the government was supposed to hand over. For the rest, including the foreigners, the government is still trying to locate their kin so that the compensation could be handed over to them.
These details were given out in an affidavit filed by Deputy Commissioner of Police Ashwini Sanap who is posted at the Mumbai police headquarters during the hearing of a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by advocate Rajeshwar Panchal.
The affidavit states that of the total 166 victims:
Relatives and the next of kin of 74 deceased in Maharashtra and outside have been given the compensation
Bodies of two deceased people could not be identified
Kins of the four deceased were declared as ineligible
Family of one deceased had refused to take compensation
22 deceased persons were officials of police department/ NSG Commando/ Home Guard who were on duty. State government had given compensation of Rs 25 lakh each to the kin of those who had died.
About 15 police personnel, the department is not sure how much compensation has been given.
One deceased person named Sunil Thackare was from Thane district but whereabouts of his kin could not be traced. A woman had claimed to be his widow but she did not have any papers to justify her claim so the department is still looking for his legal heirs.
There were 26 foreigners who had died in the attack and their families were eligible to get Rs 3 lakh compensation. The department communicated with the respective embassy of each foreigner. The department has sent repeated reminders to the embassies but have not got any response from them.
30 people who had died were from different parts of the country. The department has tried to correspond with the respective district collectors office to ask if the compensation has been paid to them or not, however here as well the documents sent by the respective collectors office has been incomplete or inappropriate and now the departments are only corresponding with each other.
Central governemnt does have a scheme for assistance to civilian victims of terrorist/ communal/ naxal violence that came into effect from April 1, 2008. However details about compensation by state government and compensation to the victims of other blasts and terror attacks like the train blast, the twin blasts at Zaveri Bazar and others were not given in the affidavit filed by state government.
In the PIL, Rajeshwar Panchal had claimed that 724 people have died in terror attacks and blasts in Mumbai from 1993 till the Zaveri Bazaar blasts on July 13, 2011. It said the victims and their families had failed to get a "just compensation" from the respective state governments. Panchal says, "After every terror attack a minister announces that we will give so much compensation, they announce as if they are giving alms while it is their duty. The government has to see the status of an individual and according to that compensation has to be given. When America was attacked they gave Rs 10 crores as compensation while here governemnt gives a few lakhs which is worth nothing."
Hearing this the division bench of Chief Justice Manjula Chellur and Justice M S Sonak directed Maharashtra government to submit details of compensation accorded to victims of blasts and other terror attacks in the state and file an affidavit in two weeks. 
